 vim: tw=80 sw=2 ts=2 et

steamed egg :
  egg water
  1   1.75

sliced boiled chicken:
  thrice yellow chicken. boiled for 11 minutes, turn off the fire, simmer for
  20 minuts.

bread:
  bread flour | water | yeast | butter | sugar | sault
  100         | 62.5  | 0.6   | 7.5    | *     | 2

  knead until dough is smooth, bouncy.

  get a bow, put in some oil then your dough, cover it with plastic wrap.

  first rise test:
    Gently stick two fingers in the risen dough up to the second knuckle and
    then take them out.  If the indentations remain the dough is “ripe” and
    ready for punch down

  second rise test:
    Simply touch the side of the dough lightly with your fingertip. If part of
    the indentation remains, the loaf is ripe and ready for the oven.

salt in yeast dough:
  Salt acts as a natural antioxidant in the dough and not only adds taste but
  especially helps bring out the flavors and aromas present in the flour and
  other ingredients.

  Next to its role in boosting the flavor of your bread, salt plays a role in
  tightening the gluten structure and adding strength to your dough. It helps
  the loaf to hold on to the carbon dioxide gas that is formed during
  fermentation, supporting good volume.

  Salt slows down fermentation and enzyme activity in dough. The salt crystals
  draw water away form their environment (salt is ‘hygroscopic’). When salt and
  yeast compete for water, salt wins and the yeast is slowed down.

  Because of its moisture maintaining properties, salt can prevent bread from
  getting stale but it can also (this is especially true in humid environments)
  absorb moisture from the air and leave you with soft crusts and soggy bread.

Fats
  Fat that is incorporated in bread dough will inhibit gluten formation. The
  resulting loaf will not rise quite as high as a loaf made without fat. On the
  positive side, fats, especially butter and olive oil, add a lot of flavor to the
  finished product. Fats keep the crumb tender and can help improve the shelf life
  of your bread by a day or so. Almost any fat can be added to a bread dough.

Eggs
  Eggs added to dough help with rising. A bread dough rich with egg will rise
  very high, because eggs are a leavening agent (think genoise or angel food
  cake). As well, the fats from the yolk help to tenderize the crumb and lighten
  the texture a bit. Eggs also contain the emulsifier lecithin. Lecithin can add
  to the overall consistency of the loaf.

Sugar
  Adding more sugar to a recipe than the yeast can eat will, no surprise, add
  sweetness to the finished product. Sugar aids in browning, can help tenderize
  the bread and also holds onto moisture to help inhibit staling.

  Be careful, though—too much sugar will severely inhibit gluten production. So,
  unless you plan on adding additional gluten to the dough (in the form of vital
  wheat gluten or gluten flour), keep the sugar in the recipe to no more than 2
  tablespoons/cup of flou

Milk
  We’ve already established that liquid is necessary to make bread, but that
  doesn’t mean we are limited to water. Replacing all or part of the water with
  milk will lend itself to a more tender, sweeter product.

  The sugar in milk, lactose, is not eaten by the yeast, so it is left to add a
  subtle sweetness to the finished bread. Milk also increases the nutritional
  value of the bread by adding additional proteins. A dough made with milk will
  brown more readily than one made with water.

how does sour dough make things rise:
   Lactobacilli (remember, they're all around us; you don't need to "add" them)
   break down flour's complex carbohydrates into simple sugars—exactly what
   yeast needs for food. The yeast, feeding on these simple sugars, produces
   carbon dioxide bubbles. 

sour flavor in sour dough:
  As byproducts of manufacturing simple sugars, lactobacilli produce flavorful
  organic acids: lactic acid, which adds a rich, mellow flavor to bread; and to
  a lesser degree over a longer period of time, acetic acid, which gives
  sourdough bread its sour tang.

steam in the oven:
  In the first few minutes of baking, loaves of bread will rise rapidly as the
  gases trapped inside expand and the yeast has a final burst of activity (this
  is called "ovenspring"). Steaming within this time helps keep the crust soft.
  This allows the bread to continue expanding freely.

  The steam that has settled on the surface of the bread also dissolves sugars
  in the dough. As the bread stops expanding and the steam begins to evaporate,
  the sugars are left behind to caramelize (yum!) and create a glossy crust.

  Steaming is really only useful during the first 5-10 minutes of baking while
  the yeast is still active and the internal structure hasn't set. After this
  time, the crust needs its own time to set and dry out.

dough Hydration percentage = (water weight / flour weight) * 100

weight:
  1 cup of bread flour : 120g
  1 cup of water : 8 fl oz , 236.588ml

flour:
  flour protein percent:
    whole-wheat flour:      16 - %
    Bread Flour:            14 - 16%
    high protein flour:     12 - 14%
    All-Purpose (AP) Flour: 10 - 12%
    Pastry Flour:           9%
    Cake Flour:             7-8%

  high gluten flours (like bread flour) soak up more water than lower gluten
  flours (like all-purpose)

cereal:
  There are three parts of the cereal’s fruit that are used to make flour: the
  endosperm, which provides starch and some protein; the germ, which contributes
  most of the fat and a bit of protein; and the bran, which is where the fiber
  lives.

autolyse:
  An autolyse is the gentle mixing of the flour and water in a bread recipe,
  followed by a 20 to 60 minute rest period. After the rest, the remaining
  ingredients are added and kneading begins. 

  pros:
    The flour fully hydrates. 
    Gluten bonds begin developing with no effort on the part of the baker, and
    kneading time is consequently reduced.
    Fermentation proceeds at a slower pace, allowing for full flavor development
    and better keeping quality.
    The dough becomes more extensible (stretchy), which allows it to expand
    easily.

  during autolyse:
    Two enzymes that are present in flour — protease and amylase — begin their
    work during the autolyse:

    The protease enzymes degrade the protein in the flour, which encourages
    extensibility.
    The amylase enzymes turn the flour’s starch into sugars that the yeast can
    consume.
